---
title:  Keep Macbook Screen On at Work
date:   2019-04-22 20:36:54 -0700
---

# Problem

I have an external monitor attached to my Macbook at work. Frequently I would leave my desk, and for privacy I would lock my screen.

Mac would activate sleep mode shortly.

But I don't want it to settle into sleep mode! Because when I come back it would take me more than 10 seconds to wake up the system and the monitor!

I would like to keep my screen on when I lock the screen and this behavior should __ONLY__ be applied when I am at work.

# Solution

I need a daemon running that checks if I am in the office, based on which keep screen on or let it sleep accordingly.

For the daemon, I chose to go with _Screenwatcher_, a daemon that executes custom scripts when screen goes on and/or off. For my use case, only execute the script when screen goes on is sufficient.

To check whether I am in the office, I check the wireless SSID the Macbook is currently connected to instead, because at work I always connect to a particular wireless SSID.

To keep screen on, a Mac utility called _Caffeinate_ will do.

Here are the steps:

1. `brew install sleepwatcher`
2. By default, Screenwatcher reads `$HOME/.wakeup` for screen on actions. Create that script.
3. `brew services start sleepwatcher` to start the daemon.

# My wakeup script

```bash
{% include sleepwatcher-wakeup.sh %}
```

# Future improvements

The script provides the framework to add automatic tasks later that are _office-specific_. For example, along with keeping screen on in the office, I mute the system volume as well to avoid embarrassing myself when accidentally turning on music >.<
